What do you need for a web application 
Can it be converted into an APK?

Engineering Mathematics (EGR 1010) Topics and Materials
EGR 1010 is an applied mathematics course taught by the College of Engineering and Computer Science faculty, consisting of lecture, lab, and recitation. All topics are driven by engineering applications taken directly from core engineering courses. The lectures are motivated by hands-on laboratory exercises including a thorough integration with Matlab.

Topics
Class Materials
Sample Materials
Course Information
Lecture Notes
Homework
Laboratory Assignments
Exams
Topics
Basic Algebraic Manipulations (1.0 weeks)
Trigonometry (1.0 weeks)
2-D Vectors (1.0 weeks)
Complex Numbers (1.0 weeks)
Sinusoids & Harmonic Signals (1.0 weeks)
Matrices & Systems of Equations (1.0 weeks)
Basics of Differentiation (3.0 weeks)
Basics of Integration (3.0 weeks)
Differential Equations (3.0 weeks)
Class Materials
Introductory Mathematics for Engineering Application, 2nd Edition
MATLAB: An Introduction with Applications, 6th Edition
Sample Materials
(Updated 09/13/2023)

Course Info
Syllabus - Fall 2023 (PDF)
Schedule - Fall 2023 (PDF)
Lecture Notes
Week 1
Straight Lines in Engineering (PDF)
Quadratic Equations in Engineering (PDF)
Algebra and Geometry Handout (PDF)
Videos

Introduction
Vehicle During Braking - pt. 1 (Intro, Slope Only)
Vehicle During Braking - pt. 2 (y-intercept, Plotting)
Electric Circuits - pt. 1 (Intro, Slope Only)
Electric Circuits - pt. 2 (y-intercept)
Electric Circuits - pt. 3 (Inverse Problem)
Pre-loaded Tension Spring - pt. 1
Pre-loaded Tension Spring - pt. 2 (Inverse Problem)
Projectile Motion - pt. 1
Projectile Motion - pt. 2
Quadratic Example - Series Circuit Containing a Lamp
Quadratic Example - Resistors in Parallel
Week 2
Trigonometry in Engineering (PDF)
Trigonometry Handout (PDF)
Videos

One Link Robot - pt. 1 (Intro)
One Link Robot - pt. 2 (Identities, Definitions)
One Link Robot - pt. 3 (On Axis Examples)
One Link Robot - pt. 4 (Off Axis Examples, Ref Angle)
One Link Robot - pt. 5 (Summary)
One Link Robot - pt. 6 (Exact Angle Examples)
One Link Robot - pt. 7 (Large Angle Examples)
One Link Robot - pt. 8 (Inverse Problem)
One Link Robot - pt. 9 (atan2)
One Link Robot - pt. 10 (atan2 Example)
Two Link Robot - pt. 1 (Intro, Examples)
Two Link Robot - pt. 2 (Inverse Problem to Theta2, Law of Sin/Cos)
Two Link Robot - pt. 3 (Inverse Problem to Theta1, Elbow up/down)
Week 3
2D Vectors in Engineering (PDF)
Videos

Introduction and Definitions
Polar/Rectangular Examples
Statics - Vacuum Example
Vector Addition - Position Vectors of the Two Link Robot
2D Vectors - Ship Positioning
2D Vectors - Airplane Relative Velocity Example
Airplane Relative Velocity Using Law of Sines/Cosines
2D Vectors - Cable Tension Example
2D Vectors - Television on a Ramp
Week 4
Complex Numbers in Engineering (PDF)
Videos

Complex Number Notation
Comparison to Vector Math
Impedance - pt. 1 (Resistor)
Impedance - pt. 2 (Inductor)
Impedance - pt. 3 (Capacitor)
Impedance - pt. 4 (Circuit Components in Series)
Complex Number Calculations (Multiplication)
Complex Number Calculations (Division)
Complex Number Calculations (Complex Conjugate)
Week 5
Sinusoids in Engineering (PDF)
Videos

Plotting of One Link Robot Components w.r.t Theta
Plotting of One Link Robot Components w.r.t Time (No Phase Angle)
Plotting of One Link Robot Components w.r.t Time (Phase Angle)
Oscillating Spring-Mass Example 1
Oscillating Spring-Mass Example 2 (Eqn. to Picture)
Oscillating Spring-Mass Example 3 (Picture to Eqn.)
Addition of Sinusoids - pt. 1 (One Phase Angle into Sine)
Addition of Sinusoids - pt. 2 (One Phase Angle into Cosine)
Addition of Sinusoids - pt. 3 (Complex Number Method)
Addition of Sinusoids - pt. 4 (Two Phase Angles into Sine)
Week 6
Systems of Equations in Engineering (PDF)
Videos

The Two Loop Circuit - pt. 1 (Substitution)
The Two Loop Circuit - pt. 2 (Graphing)
The Two Loop Circuit - pt. 3 (Matrix Method)
The Two Loop Circuit - pt. 4 (Cramer's Rule)
Static Equilibrium Example (Intro)
Static Equilibrium Example (Substitution)
Static Equilibrium Example (Matrix Method)
Static Equilibrium Example (Cramer's Rule)
Week 7
Introduction to Derivatives in Engineering (PDF)
Derivatives in Dynamics (PDF)
Derivatives Handout (PDF)
Videos

Introduction to the Derivative (Freefall Example 1st Half)
The Derivative Handout
Introduction to the Derivative (Freefall Example 2nd Half)
Derivatives - pt. 1 (Projectile Motion)
Derivatives - pt. 2 (Concavity)
Derivatives - pt. 3 (Dynamics & Equation Practice)
Derivatives - pt. 4 (Particle Motion - Position, Velocity, and Acceleration)
Derivatives - pt. 5 (Particle Motion - Sketching)
Derivatives and Plotting - pt. 1 (Sketching the Velocity)
Derivatives and Plotting - pt. 2 (Sketching the Position)
Beam Dynamics - pt. 1 (Intro)
Beam Dynamics - pt. 2 (Velocity & Acceleration)
Week 8
Derivatives in Electric Circuits (PDF)
Videos

Introduction and Definitions
Example 1 - Charge and Power - pt. 1 (Current)
Example 1 - Charge and Power - pt. 2 (Power)
Example 1 - Charge and Power - pt. 3 (Maximum Power)
Example 2 - Inductor - pt. 1 (Voltage Calculation)
Example 2 - Inductor - pt. 2 (Location of Maximum and Sketch)
Example 3 - Inductor Plotting - pt. 1 (Current)
Example 3 - Inductor Plotting - pt. 2 (Power)
Example 4 - Current Across a Capacitor (Addition of Sinusoids Review)
Example 5 - Capacitor Plotting - pt. 1 (Charge)
Example 5 - Capacitor Plotting - pt. 2 (Voltage)
Week 9
Derivatives in Strength of Materials (PDF)
Videos

Introduction to Beams
Cantilever Beam Example
Simply Supported Beam Example (Point Load)
Simply Supported Beam Example (Sinusoidal Load)
Axially Loaded Bar - pt. 1 (Normal and Shear Stress on Oblique Plane)
Axially Loaded Bar - pt. 2 (Maximum Stresses)
Week 10
Introduction to Integrals in Engineering (PDF)
Integrals in Statics (PDF)
Integrals Handout (PDF)
Videos

The Asphalt Problem - pt. 1 (Intro & Inscribed Rectangles)
The Asphalt Problem - pt. 2 (Integration)
The Integral Handout
Back to the Asphalt Problem
Integration - Concept of Work (Integration Practice)
Introduction to Centroids
Centroid of a Triangle w.r.t. "x"
Centroid of a Triangle w.r.t. "y"
Centroids of Solid Bodies (1st Moment of Area of a Rectangle)
Distributed Load on a Dam - Resultant Force
Distributed Load on a Beam - Location of the Resultant Force
Distributed Load on a Beam - Example
Week 11
Integrals in Dynamics (PDF)
Videos

Integration - Pt. 1 (Position, Velocity, & Acceleration)
Integration - Pt. 2 (Freefall Example)
Integration - Pt. 3 (Projectile Example)
Integration - Pt. 4 (Graphical Interpretation)
Integrals and Plotting Example
Week 12
Integrals in Electric Circuits (PDF)
Videos

Example 1 - Capacitor - pt. 1 (Voltage)
Example 1 - Capacitor - pt. 2 (Stored Energy)
Extra Example - Inductor - pt. 1 (Current)
Extra Example - Inductor - pt. 2 (Sketch)
Extra Example - Inductor - pt. 3 (Power)
Extra Example - Inductor - pt. 4 (Stored Energy)
Example 3 - Capacitor Plotting
Example 4 - Capacitor Plotting (curves)
Example 5 - Inductor Plotting
Example 5 - Inductor Plotting - pt. 2 (Shifted Waveform)
Week 13
Introduction to Differential Equations in Engineering (PDF)
Differential Equations Handout (PDF)
Videos

The Leaky Bucket (Introduction)
The Differential Equation Handout
The Leaky Bucket (Transient Solution)
The Leaky Bucket (Steady State Solution)
The Leaky Bucket (Total Soln and Plotting)
Total Solution for the Leaky Bucket Lab
Week 14
Differential Equations in Mechanical Systems (PDF)
Videos

The Spring Mass System (Introduction)
The Spring Mass System (Unforced Response - Transient & Steady State)
The Spring Mass System (Unforced Response - Initial Conditions)
The Spring Mass System (Forced Response - Transient & Steady State)
The Spring Mass System (Forced Response - Initial Conditions)
The Spring Mass System (Approaching Resonance)
Week 15
Differential Equations in Electric Systems (PDF)
Videos

Intro to an RC Circuit
RC Circuit (Transient Solution)
RC Circuit (Steady State and Total Solution with Zero Input)
RC Circuit (Steady State and Total Solution with Constant Input)
RC Circuit - pt. 1 (Sinusoidal Input Through Total Solution)
RC Circuit - pt. 2 (Applying Initial Conditions and Low Pass Filter)
Intro to an LC Circuit
LC Circuit (Transient Solution)
LC Circuit (Steady State Solution and Total Solution with Zero Input)
LC Circuit (Steady State Solution and Total Solution with Constant Input)
LC Circuit (Steady State Solution and Total Solution with Sinusoidal Input)
LC Circuit Resonance
Download all Sample Lecture Notes (Zip)
